+++
date = "2017-04-26T22:28:55+10:00"
next = "/intro/6"
prev = "/intro/4"
title = "Graphs"
weight = 5
course = 1
courseName = "Introduction"
iFrameRatel = 1

+++

Dgraph is running and the data is loaded.  

Before we query it, we need to answer two questions: What is a graph, and why use one as a database?

Friendship graphs and social network graphs offer a good introduction.

The [Ratel UI](http://localhost:8000) is loaded in in the right panel for this lesson. 

In it we've run a query that finds Michael and traverses his friendships, their pets, and
their friends' connections.

In the resulting graph shown, circles denote people and pets, and lines denote
connections or labeled relationships among them.

**Can you find Michael and his pet sheep Rammy on the graph?** 

{{% expandable %}}
```
Michael is the blue circle in the middle of the graph.
Rammy the sheep is the pink circle directly connected to Michael.
``` 
{{% /expandable %}}

<!---The graph could be represented as a picture, written down as text or stored in a graph database. -->

Graphs lend themselves to visualization: once you see one, you begin to
recognize graph structures everywhere.

In a graph, the objects (or entities) are called ***nodes*** and the relationships are
called ***edges*** or ***predicates***.

Graphs databases have many more uses than simply representing social networks. For example: 

- Interconnected data that in a SQL RDBMS would require many joins to use effectively. 
- Advanced searching
- Recommendation engines
- Pattern detection
- Networks like computers, roads, and telecommunications
- Business and biological processes
- Temporal events and causality relationships between them, as any well as any other type of linkage they share.  
- Structures of firms or markets

Applications like these call for graph databases.
