+++
date = "2017-04-26T22:36:18+10:00"
next = "/basic/2"
prev = "/?dql"
title = "Hello World"
weight = 1
course = 2
courseName = "Basic"
+++

{{% notice "note" %}} 
The examples in this section will not function correctly unless you have [added the schema](/intro/2) and [loaded the example data](/intro/3) in the DQL Introduction. 
{{% /notice %}}

Let’s have a look at a basic query in DQL, like the one on the right. 

Every query has a name, in this case `find_michael`,  and when run, it's result is labeled with the same name.

The search criteria `func: ...` matches nodes. Function `eq` does what you'd
expect, matching nodes with a `name` equalling "Michael". The result is the
matched nodes and listed outgoing edges from those nodes.

Dgraph identifies each node with a unique internal id, its UID. A UID is not an
edge, but can it be returned in a query with `uid`. If you already know a node's
UID, it can be retrieved with `func: uid(<uid-number>)`.

Run the query now, and examine the result.

Challenge: Modify the query to find Michael by his `uid`.

{{% expandable %}} 

First run the original `find_michael` query and note the `uid` in the response.     
```
{
  find_michael(func: eq(name, "Michael")) {
    uid
    name
    age
  }
}
```

Then modify the query to use the `uid` function as follows, replacing the ```UID_HERE```
in the unquoted `uid` value.

The `uid` for Micahel will begin with `0x` and be 18 characters long (`0xfffd8d67d98b46fc` for example) and is unique to your 
local Dgraph instance. 

```

{
  find_michael(func: uid(UID_HERE)) {
    uid
    name
    age
  }
}
```



You can edit the queries and try whatever you like. When there are answers like
this, cut and paste them into the query panel, then edit and run them.
{{% /expandable %}}


This tutorial handles running of the query for you, so you can just focus on the
query text.  But if you want to learn more about how it does so, check out [posting queries](https://docs.dgraph.io/dgraph-overview/) or [programming with Dgraph](https://docs.dgraph.io/clients/).
