+++
date = "2017-04-27T15:42:54+10:00"
next = "/moredata/2"
prev = "/?dql"
title = "A bigger dataset"
weight = 1
course = 4
courseName = "More Data"
endpoint = "/alter"
+++

Ok, we are off to a start with Dgraph and DQL. Let's move it up a few notches.

Dgraph can also do query aggregation, geo-queries, string querying and more. But
for all that let's move from the small datasets we started with and try out
something bigger, much bigger.

### Load the movie dataset

In a terminal, navigate to the root directory where you checked out this tour and run:

```
make seed-movie-dataset
```

This loads a dataset of about one million triples containing movies, directors,
and actors into your local Dgraph instance. Dgraph reports back exactly how many
triples were loaded and how long it took.

It's a big database of movies, but it won't trouble Dgraph. It is, however, big
enough for us to use more complex queries.

This dataset is a one million triple subset of a
[larger dataset of movies](https://github.com/dgraph-io/benchmarks/blob/master/data/21million.rdf.gz)
that contains around 230000 actors and around 86000 movies. We've made a subset
to make it quick to load, while having enough complexity to yield interesting
results. But, because it's a subset, you might find your favorite actor isn't
there, or that some actors are missing some of their movies.

Later in the tutorial, you might need to refer back to this page (or issue a
[schema query](../../basic/3)) to check the indexes or schema types. Remember
that we can't apply functions to edges that aren't indexed, and we'll learn that
some functions require particular indexes.
